I
Previously on Rick and Morty Jerry I had sex with your wife
I did it. I fixed portal travel Jack the Ripper at your service cool this happened to I'm pregnant honey
She's just like you it's raining meatballs something is Jerry Smith dad doing what he loved getting stung by bees off
What have some respect it's dad's funeral
I'm gonna name you Jerry Jr. Thanks for solving that murder guys. Here's a skateboard. Thanks Tony Hawk
Morty say you'll marry me what I just say yes. Yes, okay
Rick do you promise I do and for our honeymoon?
Let's go to a sealed chamber line with ionized deuterium why because the charge acts as a narrative decelerant Morty none of this is real
We're in a previously on spiral clear your head after all this happened. No
What did I just say when a great execution?
Let's go back to the chamber now repeat after me Morty next time on Rick and Morty next time on Rick and Morty
No previously on Rick and Morty ignore it Morty next time on Rick and Morty it counteracts his toxins next time on Rick and
Morty whose toxins
Previously on grab him
Oh
And we're back
Because of this conceptual little piece of shit grab his feet
Let your buddy purge the meta venom Morty don't succumb to his pointless self-aware bullshit
No, no, no
Did he use a portal wishes he wriggled back to the meta layer through a hole in the fourth wall put these on and help me find it
I don't like this Rick. Yeah, you shouldn't it's not a likable premise
I mean, it's funny when I do a little nod to the viewers, but viewers
That's the right attitude Morty a few carefree verbal asides always by me none of this season 3 moonlighting shit
Okay, here it is going to patch it. No, he subverted actual reality Morty
He needs to be put down like a rabbit dog
Oh
Yeah, no, you don't want to wear those over here
Maybe he went down that road no no no if you took that he'd end up a hero damn it Rick
I don't like this is this whole place just a bunch of grown-inducing wordplay for seven TV critics
I won't even enjoy it. It's worse than you think Morty
We're basting in meta radiation right now our credibility is being permanently eroded every second
We spin here is the equivalent to 10 space Jam cameos
Oh no
I feel bad. Let's just get out of here. Does he praise you know Hitler was Catholic, right?
Okay, he apparently prays very well time for you two to meet the Lord
That's okay. We're good treat it like a bear attack just walk backwards and make yourself look big
I love a good refusal of the call. Hello Rick. Hello Amish juggler. His name is story Lord
Story Lord listen trust me take Amish juggler. You can have it story Lord Rick
He's the villain from that toy train. I bought you very good Morty
The fictional versions of you trapped me in a Bible show for children
But I used make believe Christ to transcend fiction and enter meta reality
Now I'm the one doing the trapping Leon was the bait Jesus
You're using Jesus to beat us up. Have you seen South Park? Good call out Morty
That's the kind of meta I like the kind of keeps us creatively accountable
He bane be Morty Jesus bane to me
You can't beat me up. I'm technically a Christian child and I'm your worst nightmare
I'm the Jesus from every Jesus joke the one without a guy Morty take this and get out
Thank you looks like story Lord story is about to become based on real events
What do you want with that? I want when any character wants motivation
What?
Forward your notes to my ass
I
Previously on Jesus Christ hey, I'm Jesus Mary. That's my mom's name. Stop dude. She's a hooker the better disciple in you
Oh, no, I
I can't die I have a proposition for you. I work alone
If I suck your blood I'll be invincible I think you'll never know
Billionaire immortal entrepreneur Jesus Christ has placed all his money into what he's calling a second chance at love
Make me normal rich
Oh
Eat your pudding mr. Christ, what are you smiling at your name?
What's happening Rick Leon's venom makes you think more and more of your life is behind you as he feeds on your released potential
Leon you saved our lives
Me meta Morty his life doesn't matter yours does that's why we need to get back
Well, this doesn't feel like a Citadel
Maybe it's cooler on the inside
What this isn't what it looks like this is a very special diet for successful writers
Why do you look like my character? I am your character and you are going to improve
Your story Lord you're great great isn't
I've killed Rick and made myself real. I'm better than some shitty toy train
Is this your office or your apartment? Why does it smell like you sleep here? You're my creator. Why are you pathetic?
Because you failed and whose fault is that what the hell happened you want to know what happened like specifically
Well, the ricks wanted to do a canterbury tails type thing
But none of them have actually read fucking canterbury tails
So then they told me to make it like the poker game episode of the Batman cartoon where the bad guys tell stories about Batman
Then they kept telling me it needed something. Yeah, no shit. It needed something it needed to never be pitched
I did my job goombie the ice queen the tickets please guy
They just bailed on it the website didn't even fucking work and it was a shitty URL to begin with story dash train
Who uses a dash they sent me up to fail they fucked me they fucked me and you're lucky
I haven't blown my brains out right just give me a motivation you hacky fart. Okay. Here's your motivation
You're looking for motivation. You want all the motivation. That's lazy
It got you this far must be nice by the way, which I could afford to dress like a bisexual acting coach from the 70s my motivation
Is motivation, okay? I oh no my better friend you're coming with me
Yo, if you don't see me coming it's a bad fortress
Where are we headquarters of the self-referential six they're meta nerds that found out they could be less bearable as a team
They can help us. No, but there's a prisoner here that can't shh. Don't tell them that Rick Sanchez
I've been waiting for this moment for years. Oh good morning. This is miss
Lead I should kill you where you stand
Brought you previously on you want to lock him up in your detention center. It's a tric he wants your prisoner you do
Talk about a mislead anti-meta field fancy device. I think I can recall the time you built it. Don't try it flashback
You know, I'm excited about the upcoming election force field will be impenetrable by meta energy it runs on hydrogen isotopes
A few barrels of petroleum should dampen it
run
worry
Where those not there before guess there's been a Connie to new any error
These people are the worst I told you way overpowered
Look out Rick forget him. He's a nameless guard
That's protagonic his beam has the power to make any character the protagonist
Oh man, oh man, oh man, oh man. Oh, what are you doing Marvin not dying? That's what I'm doing
What's going on? What happened? I did it again Katie ran out on another job
Well, if you didn't do that you wouldn't be my man
It was almost time to just let it go that's how much I hate it here smash cut
Remember me who's this guy now? I am mr. Twist
The fifth member of the self-referential six. Who's the six that's the twist Marty? It's you what ignore him
Marty the twist is there's no sixth member and he tells that to everybody in any case your eyes now
You can't free yourself without a twist and I control them. You don't control every twist mr. Twist
I've got a twist for you impossible. What is it?
Nice try like I didn't see that coming
Fuck me
Great work Morty. I'm adapting here's our ticket out of here
They got him in a cell made out of sports because it's the opposite of story
Do I want to ask who he is his name is Brett con?
He has the power to make things always have been other things
I think that's called retconning but his name is Brett con and Brett's a name too
His name could be retcon it is and always has been
Careful Morty stay clear of his retcon range till he agrees to help us rick you've always trusted me nice try
Here's how it's gonna work. You're gonna make it so morty and I never came here once that's always been the case
I'll free you remotely with this
What is my purpose to wait until I tell you to pull the lever you are fucking kidding me
If you don't free me right now rick I can make very very bad things always have been the case for you
Is that a threat you fuck you you can rot in there rick
You know what ret forget what I said. We've always been friends. Good one
Oh easy rat. Don't forget that coffee mug I gave you
You always were able to be killed with coffee
You plan front again that twist being
You were born without bones
Oh
There's never been anything outside this fortress and this fortress
A great plan rick I'm not pushing back on that morty. I have royally fucked us
It hurts even past the fourth wall too long. We won't be real much longer. You killed us rick
You just had to hate metastory telling
In my defense morty, I think you can agree my hate was justified. Oh, at least
earned
death
Death is a threshold
Oh, what what happened you atoned who who are you?
I'm joseph cambell soup
I almost considered not making it because my name is cambell
But then I thought stay in the moment joe follow your bliss. How are you here ret con said there was nothing
Some things never change about mythology. There's always an old man with soup name one story that doesn't have one
Uh jack in the beanstalk diaries every matrix every movie ever. All right. I don't have to defend myself to you people
Where's my soup?
Previous fucking leon. Why is that prick here?
No more a prick than you friend meta characters erode reality
But all characters are meta rick all of us are nourished and consumed by chaos
Like newborns at the breast of a meth addict in a lifeboat filled with forks
I know what you have to do rick scrub cambell's browser history. Just trust previously on could you previously us away home?
Well, I'll sure enjoy trying
I bet you would rick can't change morty changes what you might call his kryptonite
Except instead of being super. He's you know kind of a pussy. Let's do it
Previously on rick get him off get him off. Oh boy. He almost killed you. Okay. Well, I feel bad
I kind of pressured you into trying that you called me a pussy. I said I feel bad
This is a map to a region rich in narrative or I wish you the best of luck faster morty
I'd help but I can't blister my inventing hands. How long will it take years?
You can live in my woodshed. Just don't open the door after dark. Why not get out here you communist Jews
Maybe I'm not an alcoholic. I know right you're fucking back to the future rip offs
It's ready rick. I should stay why I'm pregnant. What do you do?
On who me I never left but you had to think all this happened to make that and I can get this through the titles
If you hang on tight, what about my beard and unborn child? Let them go. Thank you, leon
When you get home rick do some classic adventures like season one. So stick to that fucking note. What the fuck does it even mean?
Now one last time what's my motivation?
Motivation this machine will siphon it from everyone in the universe. Perfect greenlit launch it
Oh, I think it's working. Yes, I can feel it. Something I did is actually affecting someone
I don't want to work anymore. I do but only as an excuse to not practice guitar
Why don't we just write any number down on the score sheet? Oh, I even do that
Wait, you have to register
I can feel it. I'm so motivated. I want a lot
I
Story time's over. Ha hardly your decision. You seriously double down on motivation as your motivation. It's a good idea
There's no such thing. There's joyful and there's joyless and we've had our fill of one
Morty make that sweaty writer stop working while I kill off this character
I have never been more driven to destroy someone. Yeah, well, I'm driven to lower my blood sugar
But guess who's getting tacos after he kicked your ass
So you're jacked who cares
Come gutters. I don't like that phrase. I don't take notes
You can't beat me rick. I have one million times your motivation. Go to those guys with the cell phone kiosks at the mall
Huh
The hair is wrong like you'd be picky about licensing actually I would I happen to believe that
I
Do that you gotta watch it
Come on. Just stop. I don't want to fight you kid. I'm a writer that wrote something successful
So if you want me to give it up, you don't need a black belt or a big parrot
Yeah, well, I don't have those in the mythical sense. I have both Joseph Campbell. He had nice try
He died in the 80s only you can see and hear me morty. Just repeat what I tell you okay
Sir, you're only proud of your creation success because you want to be creative
But creation doesn't happen through gimmicks technology and distribution. It doesn't even happen through work
Creativity is frankly adjacent to mental illness and overlaps with it substantially
A lot of talented people kill themselves and all of them are miserable
The real gift is to be ungifted and from what I saw in your green arrow spec script
That's the gift you were given you couldn't have seen that i'm joseph cambell. I saw it
The villain was a placeholder. I said I saw it jan. I didn't say I could get past page five
Your villains aren't the problem. The problem is when you write you're a villain if you want to be a hero just stop
You know what maybe I will register
Say it. Tell me I'm the new mr. Nimbit
Oh
Looks like your writer took a hiatus. Oh fuck
You're less motivated to fight now. So this is literally punching down, but you've got it
Please let me live. I promise to be cooler. I'll be less inside baseball. Maybe I changed my name
You failed me no I failed you
Oh
Good things
Must come to an end all bad things too though. So don't flatter yourself
Chan joseph cambell says you have to be the one to put him down
Wait, wait, wait, wait, Joseph Campbell also says you have to use this brand new limited edition rick plush available only on rick-plush.biz
Supplies are limited act now. He did
Oh
Jesus that's the last time I buy a toy from a rick the plushies are obviously well made
Thanks for getting us back alive rick. Well, I am a master of both worlds morty
Joseph Campbell told me to stop writing because it should be effortless
And when it happens organically that's when it's meant to be you know like um like me
I'm a writer. There's a pencil writers use pencils. Okay. So like what if I like a pencil use me like um, okay?
Yeah, okay, so it's like a magic pencil that writes the writer's life. Holy shit. It's a movie about a writer
I am back
I
Yeah
And I'm crazy
Did you get any of that
You